Add `how-to` guides (#1435)
wso2/docs-mi: en/docs/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping.md

# AI Data Mapping

Did you know that the WSO2 Micro Integrator component of WSO2 Integrator comes with built-in data mapping capabilities to streamline your integration workflows?

> This data mapping solution brings you a powerful graphical interface, combined with AI-driven assistance to perform all sorts of data mappings in mere seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This data mapping solution brings you a powerful graphical interface, combined with AI-driven assistance, to perform all sorts of data mappings in mere seconds.
```

Author: Fixed with 26b89fe

In this guide, we are generating an API that processes weather data retrieved from the OpenWeather API for a mobile app. The app only requires a selected set of data from the API response and needs to modify some of the retrieved data to meet its requirements.

## Let's get started!

### Prerequisites

You need Visual Studio Code (VS Code) with the <a target="_blank" href="https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=WSO2.micro-integrator">Micro Integrator for VS Code</a> extension installed.

!!! Info
    See the [Install Micro Integrator for VS Code]({{base_path}}/develop/mi-for-vscode/install-wso2-mi-for-vscode) documentation to learn how to install Micro Integrator for VS Code.

> ### Step 1: Create an integration project

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: IMO since these steps are already covered in guide "Generate integrations using AI", we don't have to take away main focus by giving manual steps. We can redirect user to that previous guide and highlight the AI datamapper function in this. I don't think they both covers same scenario having adependency between guides is not an issue. WDYT?

Author: AFAIK, these docs will be linked to the youtube videos. Therefore the main audience will be new users, hence it's better to give a complete guidance rather than referring to a different guide to cover some steps.

Reviewer 3: The purpose of these "How to" guides is to bring to the reader's attention any new features recently added to the product and to give him a chance to give each feature a quick go. The said user can be an old user or someone who just came to check out the exact feature. Therefore, all the steps need to be outlined for each guide.

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Value</td>
            <td>
            Your OpenWeather API Key
            </td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-apikey-var.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-apikey-var.png" alt="API key variable" width="30%"></a>

5. Click on the **+** icon and search for `get` in the **Mediator Palette** to add the HTTP GET operation to get the coordinates of a location.

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-http-get.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-http-get.png" alt="search get in palette" width="80%"></a>

6. Click **+ Add new connection** to create a new connection.

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-new-http-conn.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-new-http-conn.png" alt="add new connection" width="80%"></a>

> 7. Select `HTTPS` and fill the following details to create a connection to OpenWeather API. Finally, click **Add** in the **Add New Connection** form to create the connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Select `HTTPS` and fill in the following details to create a connection to OpenWeather API. Finally, click **Add** in the **Add New Connection** form to create the connection.
```

Author: Fixed with 26b89fe

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-connection.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-connection.png" alt="create connection" width="80%"></a>

> 8. Provide `/geo/1.0/direct` as the **Relative Path** and click **+ Add Query Param** to add the following query parameters.

Author: Fixed with 26b89fe

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-data-mapper.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-data-mapper.png" alt="search data mapper" width="80%"></a>

13. Click **+ Add new**, provide `weatherDataMapper` as the name and click **Create** in the **Create New Datamapper** form.

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-data-mapper-new.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-data-mapper-new.png" alt="create new mapping" width="30%"></a>

14. Click **Add** to add the data mapper to the integration flow.

15. Click on the name of the newly added Data Mapper mediator to open the input and output mapping window.

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-data-mapper-open-src.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-data-mapper-open-src.png" alt="open mapping file" width="80%"></a>

> 16. To import the input schema, click on the **Import input schema**. Since this scenario involves JSON to JSON mapping, you can choose to either import from JSON sample or a JSON schema. In this guide, we will be using the **Import from JSON** option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
16. To import the input schema, click on the **Import input schema**. Since this scenario involves JSON to JSON mapping, you can import from either a JSON sample or a JSON schema. In this guide, we will be using the **Import from JSON** option.
```

Author: Fixed with 26b89fe

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-import-json.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-import-json.png" alt="input output mapping" width="80%"></a>

    ??? "Sample Input JSON"

>         Here’s a sample response received from the OpenWeatherMap API. You can copy paste this as your input schema in this scenario.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Here’s a sample response received from the OpenWeatherMap API. You can copy and paste this as your input schema in this scenario.
```

Author: Fixed with 26b89fe

            "weather": [
                {
                    "id": 800,
                    "main": "Clear",
                    "description": "clear sky",
                    "icon": "01d"
                }
            ],
            "base": "stations",
            "main": {
                "temp": 296.91,
                "feels_like": 297.61,
                "temp_min": 296.91,
                "temp_max": 296.91,
                "pressure": 1011,
                "humidity": 87,
                "sea_level": 1011,
                "grnd_level": 1010
            },
            "visibility": 10000,
            "wind": {
                "speed": 3.87,
                "deg": 39,
                "gust": 3.99
            },
            "clouds": {
                "all": 0
            },
            "dt": 1736385682,
            "sys": {
                "country": "LK",
                "sunrise": 1736384109,
                "sunset": 1736426384
            },
            "timezone": 19800,
            "id": 1248991,
            "name": "Colombo",
            "cod": 200
        }
        ```

17. Follow the same steps to import the following output schema.

    ??? "Sample Output JSON"

>         The data mapper will map the above input schema to the below output schema. You can copy paste this as your output schema in this scenario.

Author: Fixed with 26b89fe

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-map-btn.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-map-btn.png" alt="map schemas" width="80%"></a>

    The Micro Integrator Data Mapper leverages AI to generate various types of mappings. With a simple button click, you'll find that all of your mappings have been automatically completed.

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-map.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-map.png" alt="mapped schemas" width="80%"></a>

    The AI Data Mapper is capable of handling complex mapping scenarios as well.

    For instance,

    - In our output schema, `daylight_hours` is calculated from the formula `(sunset - sunrise) / 3600` based on the input data. 

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-daylight.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-daylight.png" alt="daylight mapping" width="80%"></a>

>     - The `humidity` field in the input data is a percentage value and needs to be accurately reflected when displayed to the user. 

Author: Fixed with 26b89fe

>     The AI Data Mapper is fully capable of recognizing and managing these types of use cases effectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The AI Data Mapper can recognize and manage these types of use cases effectively.
```

Author: Fixed with 26b89fe

19. If you need to apply additional operations to define mappings between the input and output data, try using the Expression Editor. Explore the following scenarios to gain insight into how you can utilize the Expression Editor effectively.

    - Display the weather description in upper-case letters

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-uppercase.gif"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-uppercase.gif" alt="convert to uppercase" width="80%"></a>

    !!! Tip
        You can learn further about the Expression Editor and other features from our [documentation]({{base_path}}/reference/mediators/data-mapper-mediator/#expression-editor).

20. Click on the **+** icon in the diagram, select the **Respond** mediator in the **Mediator Palette** and click **Add** to add it to the integration flow.

>     You may refer to the following API, HTTP connection and Data Mapper configurations for reference,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You may refer to the following API, HTTP connection, and Data Mapper configurations for reference,
```

Author: Fixed with 26b89fe

                weather: {
                    main: input.weather[0].main,
                    description: input.weather[0].description.toLocaleUpperCase(),
                    icon: input.weather[0].icon,
                    daylight_hours: (input.sys.sunset - input.sys.sunrise) / 3600,
                },
                temp: {
                    temp: input.main.temp - 273.15,
                    temp_description: input.main.temp > 30 ? "Hot" : input.main.temp < 15 ? "Cold" : "Moderate",
                },
                wind: {
                    speed: input.wind.speed,
                    deg: input.wind.deg,
                },
                pressure: input.main.pressure,
                humidity: `${input.main.humidity}%`,
                visibility: input.visibility,
            };
        }
        ```

### Step 4: Build and Run

1. Click on the **Build and Run** button to build and deploy the integration.

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-build.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-build.png" alt="build and run" width="80%"></a>

> 2. **Runtime Services** will open after the server is up and running and from that panel select the API that you need to try out using the **Try It** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Runtime Services** will open after the server is up and running, and from that panel, select the API that you need to try out using the **Try It** button.
```

Author: Fixed with 26b89fe

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-tryit.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-tryit.png" alt="try it out" width="80%"></a>

> 3. Click on the **Try it Out** button to provide the required query parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the **Try it Out** button to provide the required query parameters.
```

Author: Fixed with 26b89fe

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-operation-tryit.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-operation-tryit.png" alt="try it out operation" width="80%"></a>

> 4. Provide the required parameters and click on the **Execute** button to invoke the API.

Author: Fixed with 26b89fe

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-request.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-request.png" alt="execute request" width="80%"></a>

5. Check the response received from the server and confirm that the weather details for the specified city have been mapped to the output data schema you provided.

    <a href="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-response.png"><img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/get-started/how-to-guides/ai-data-mapping/ai-data-mapping-response.png" alt="response" width="80%"></a>

> Data mapping in seconds. Try out this and our other cool AI features, and see for yourself how much easier integration development can be.

Reviewer: how about `Try this feature along with our other exciting AI capabilities and discover how much simpler integration development can be.`

Author: Fixed with 26b89fe
